This month, I'd like to talk to you on the subject, Jehovah loves you, despite appearances,
our imperfections.
You likely notice there are two areas we'll discuss, our appearance and our imperfections.
Why address these two aspects?
It's because there's a percentage of Jehovah's faithful servants that wonder if Jehovah
can really love them because of one of those two reasons, or both.
Let's take appearances first.
When you've gotten all cleaned up and are fully dressed each day and you're glassed
of full-length mirror, are you pleased with the way you look?
Would you like to change a few things, but you can't?
Some of us tend to compare ourselves to other imperfect humans and adopt the thinking
of the masses.
Movies and television have blinded many to reality, making them feel that the beauty of
the human body must look like the handsome and beautiful movie stars and famed athletes.
However, comparing ourselves to them can often be very disappointing, time-consuming,
and even expensive.
If you go to great lengths to try to look more like another person, it's true.
Some have been born with a physical impairment or disability.
This may be obvious to others.
And some unkind people might have made comments or teased the person.
That can make a person feel self-conscious or even create a feeling of low self-esteem.
This can become slow and ingrained in one's thinking that he might begin to feel no one
could love him.
And at times, that kind of erroneous thinking can even affect a person's view of Jehovah's
love.
However, please be assured that Jehovah loves us despite our physical appearance.
It's been said, beauty is only skin deep.
It fades with time.
Let's look at a picture of yourself when you were, let's say, 17.
And then look at one when you are in your 80s.
You say, that's not me, oh yes it is.
Humans are sometimes enamored by appearances.
We don't mean to do this, but we may get caught up in this trap, a faithful prophet of Jehovah
fell into this type of reasoning.
Do you remember when Jehovah told Samuel to anoint the next king of Israel?
At first Samuel, chapter 16, verse 3, Jehovah told Samuel to go to Jesse in the Bethlehem
and there he said, you must anoint for me the one whom I designate to you.
Do you have that in your mind?
No, you must anoint the one whom I designate to you.
What happened?
Samuel defaulted to the way human sometimes a few others or appearances.
Let's read what happened.
It's recorded at first Samuel chapter 16, verse 6.
It reads, as they came in and he saw Eliad, he said,
surely here before Jehovah stands his anointed one.
Samuel didn't really know Eliad, but he was impressed with his appearance.
He was tall and likely a good looking man.
Read along with me on the screen, verse 7.
Jehovah's wave assessing our worth before him is very different.
Verse 7 says, but Jehovah said to Samuel, do not pay attention to his appearance
and how tall he is for I have rejected him.
Now note this, for the way man sees is not the way God sees,
because mere man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.
Jehovah's view of beauty is different from ours.
Close your little eyes for a minute and see what your mind's eye,
a beautiful bird, now open your eyes.
Which bird did you see?
Was it an indigo, bunting, a cardinal, or a Baltimore Oreo?
Those are beautiful birds.
But does Jehovah prefer one bird over another just because of his beauty or appearance?
What bird did Jesus choose in teaching his disciples a valuable lesson about Jehovah?
He used a sparrow, a plain somewhat drab looking little bird of small monetary value.
Spotted along on screen as I read Matthew 10 verses 29 and 31.
Two sparrow sell for a coin of small value, do they not?
Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your father's knowledge.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
So have no fear, you are worth more than many sparrows.
Jesus represented Jehovah's view of all those who have dedicated themselves to Him
and are trying to remain faithful.
Think about it.
Jehovah likely notices when an indigo, bunting, a cardinal,
or a Baltimore Oreo falls to the ground.
But Jesus made a significant point when he chose to use a sparrow in his illustration.
Jehovah is not impressed with the beauty of one's physical appearance.
He loves us as much as he loves any of his faithful servants, despite our appearance.
In fact, Jesus went a step further and said,
you are worth more than many sparrows.
You're not just a bird.
You are a precious human who has come to know and love Jehovah.
He loves you not because of your appearance.
Being handsome, drab looking, short, heavy, skinny, bold, beautiful,
less than beautiful, having warts or limp or missing limbs,
being cross-eyed or having a different skin color or shape of your eyes.
No.
Jehovah loves you because of who you are at heart.
Do you remember what Jehovah told Samuel?
Man sees what appears through the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
Yes, Jehovah looks at you and sees the secret person of the heart
that came to love your God.
The universal sovereign.
You cannot take that aspect away from the attention of Jehovah.
If you love him, like Jesus indicates you can, he loves you,
despite any external appearances.
You likely remember Jesus said at Mark 1230,
you must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart
and with your whole soul and with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
That's it.
Jesus did not add and your good looks.
No.
Your appearance is not a factor in your love for Jehovah or his love for you.
Maybe you say, I'm crippled in both feet.
I have a trouble walking.
I feel dead inside.
You're not the first servant of Jehovah to feel that way.
The fibreshaft evidently felt that way.
He too was crippled in both feet.
King David had just honored him by promising to give him property
and the privilege of eating his meals with the king.
Notice how the fibreshaft felt about himself
at 2 Samuel chapter 9 verse 8.
What is your servant that you have turned your attention
to a dead dog like me?
He did not have a high opinion of himself.
It sounds like low self-esteem, doesn't it?
If you have a physical impairment or a defect,
you're not dead, but very much alive in Jehovah's eye.
Listen to what Jehovah tells you at Melachi chapter 4 verse 2.
But on you who honor my name, the son of righteousness
will shine with healing in its rays,
and you will skip about like fattened calves.
Do what you can with what you have to work with.
Knowing Jehovah loves you and ultimately
will correct any physical problem.
You'll then be able to live for all eternity
without any concerns about your appearance.
Now let's talk about Jehovah's love force
despite our imperfections.
If you're a human, you're imperfect.
Sorry, that's just the way it is.
Adam passed imperfection onto all of us.
Being imperfect, we will all make mistakes.
We all do without exception.
You'll be embarrassed at your imperfect reaction at times.
But it happens.
Jehovah knows our condition.
He knows what Adam handed down to us, yet he still loves us
despite imperfection.
It really is not our fault.
How can Jehovah still love us when we make mistakes?
Use poor judgment on occasion.
And at times fall into serious sin.
Though we're sorry and repentant that way.
It's on the basis of Jesus' ransom sacrifice.
Let's read Mark 10, verse 45, from the screen.
For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered to,
but to minister and to give his life as a ransom
in exchange for many.
Jesus absorbs our mistakes.
This is possible because he gave his perfect human life
for us in exchange for what Adam lost and passed on to us.
And look with me at 1 Corinthians 15, verse 22,
for just as in Adam all are dying, so also in the Christ,
all will be made alive.
That's beautiful.
Jehovah does not hold our imperfections against us
as long as we acknowledge our imperfections
and feel remorse in our repentant.
He loves us despite the issue.
Revelation chapter 21, verses 1 through 5,
says that in time humans will experience
the removal of tears, mourning, outcry, pain, and even death.
All of these painful situations are based on the sin of Adam.
They will then be gone for obedient humans.
This means a return to the perfect state
enjoyed by man at the beginning of human history
in the Garden of Eden.
So the humans will be able to enjoy not only perfection
as to faith and love, but perfection as to sinlessness.
At that time, they'll measure up fully
and fallously to God's righteous standards for humans.
Can you imagine that glorious time?
Of course, perfection at that time does not mean an end
to variety, as some persons often assume.
The animal kingdom, which is the product of Jehovah's perfect activity,
contains enormous variety.
Our perfect earth is likewise filled with variety,
change, and contrast.
It allows for the simple and the complex
to plane and the fancy, the sour and the sweet,
the rough and the smooth, the metals and the woods,
the mountains and the valleys.
It embraces the stimulating freshness of early spring,
the warmth of summer, the liveliness of autumn colors,
and the pure beauty of freshly fallen snow.
Perfect humans will not be stereotypes
with identical personalities, talents and abilities.
But the beauty is that with all of the variety of appearances,
talents and personalities, and perfection will be no more.
Please be assured that, as we've considered from the Scriptures,
Jehovah loves each one of us despite our appearances,
our imperfections.
May we all fully love and adore Jehovah and his son,
Christ Jesus, in return.